Welcome back everyone to this lecture and activation functions so recall from our neural network models
that inputs X have a weight assigned to them w and then we also add in a bias term attached to them
in that perception or neuron model which means as formula we have the input x times there'll be plus
b so clearly if we start thinking about this w just implies how much weight or strength we should be
giving to the incoming input we can almost think of it as kind of how important is that input.
You can imagine that if we have a absolute value of that weight being very large that input or that
feature is probably really important we can also think of B as an offset value.
We mentioned this before but basically that makes it so that X times W has to reach a certain threshold
before having an effect and overcoming that B term.
So for example if we have B is equal to negative 10 then the effects of X times w won't really start
to overcome that B or bias term until their products are passes 10.
So after that then the effect is solely based on that value of W thus the term bias for B.
So you can essentially think of that bias term as a threshold that the neuron has placed in order for
the input times the weight to start taking some sort of majority effect.
So next we want to do is we want to set boundaries for the overall output value of that combination
x times there'll be a plus b and to keep things simple we can do is we can state z is equal to x times
w plus B and then we can pass that term Z through some sort of activation function to limit its value.
Now keep in mind a lot of research has been done into activation functions and their effectiveness.
We're gonna explore some really common activation functions and then also show the wikipedia page for
activation functions which displays and lists a lot more so we're called The Simple neuron or perceptual
model has an F of X..
So we have those X's times are weights plus the bias of that neuron so you can imagine if we had a binary
classification problem we would want an output of either 0 or 1 now as a quick note as I mentioned to
avoid confusion I'm going to find the total inputs as this variable Z raises equal to w x plus B.
So in this context of a neural network and passing in the inputs times a weight plus the bias into an
activation function I'm really going to pass in that Z term into the activation function.
Keep in mind you often see these variables capitalized in the literature such as function of capital
C or function of capital Z.
In regards to some capital X to denote that instead of a single X input you actually have a tensor input
consisting of multiple values which means Z is also a tensor which means you have a tensor of weights
etc..
So don't get confused on the capitalization you may see if you're reading some books.
Another thing that I get confused by often when people are writing out these activation functions it's
just really common practice to write them out in regards to f since writing a function in regards to
X is kind of the default.
So so you may see some activation functions written out in regards to X especially on that wikipedia
page or just in normal literature and books you're reading on deep learning let that confuse you.
We're actually passing in w x plus B in its entirety to the activation functions.
Okay so I just mentioned if we're doing a binary classification problem it would be really nice that
the neuron always spits out either a 0 or 1.
So the absolute simplest networks can rely on a basic step function that outputs 0 or 1.
So all we do is dependent on the value of Z along here we can see the x axis.
What we're gonna do is if it's value of Z is less than zero we are at zero.
If value of C is greater than zero then we output 1 so regardless of the values.
What's nice about this.
It's always going to output 0 or 1 so this sort of function is releasable for classification.
It will always output either 0 or 1 however this is a very quote unquote strong function since really
small changes aren't reflected.
You can see here there's just an immediate cut off that splits between 0 and 1.
If the total output of Z happens to be less than zero we just defined that as zero.
If the total output of Z happened to be greater than zero then when we pass it through the step function
we kind of top it off at 1.
So there is a floor at 0 a ceiling at 1 and the immediate cutoff just depends on what that total value
of Z ended up being.
It would be really nice however if instead of using such a dramatic step function we have a little bit
more of a dynamic function for example that red line so lucky for us.
And you're probably already familiar if this if you'd done any machine learning classes.
This is actually the sigmoid function.
It has the same lower bound and upper bound so 0 and 1 which is useful for binary classification but
it does this in a little more of a moderate fashion than a simple cut off that a step function would
do.
And here we can see the formula for a sigmoid function also known as the logistic function which is
f a Z in our case is equal to 1 divided by one plus E to power of negative Zi where Z.
In our case would be equal to w x plus b so changing the activation function used in your neurons can
be really beneficial depending on the task.
Now keep in mind this still works for classification but what's really nice is it's going to be slightly
more sensitive to small changes and if we want we can actually grab that output the sigmoid value to
then treat it as a probability between zero and one since we can see here that there's actually values
that it's going to output between 0 and 1 instead of solely 0 or solely 1 that red line is going to
be able to report back something like zero point six or zero point four.
We should then give you an idea of how sure the network is that it belongs into any particular class
so let's discuss a few more activation functions that we're going to encounter.
So some really common ones are things like the hyperbolic tangent written out as 10 H and Hebrew can
see the formulas with respect to x on the right hand side.
So there's hyperbolic cosine hyperbolic sine but the most common one is hyperbolic tangent which is
hyperbolic sine divided by hyperbolic cosine.
So what's nice about this it's going to output between negative 1 and 1 instead of 0 to 1 looks really
similar to sigmoid function.
Essentially the main difference is that lower bound that floor and we'll discuss y later on with certain
neurons and certain networks it makes more sense to use a hyperbolic tangent.
I want you to be aware that it's a really common option now in other really common action is the rectified
linear unit shortened to R E L U and this is actually really a relatively simple function.
Basically you can describe that as Max zero comma Z which essentially states that if the output of the
value is less than zero we treat it as zero.
Otherwise if it's greater than zero we go ahead and output the actual z value so rectified linear units
have actually been found to have very good performance especially when dealing with the issue of vanishing
gradient which is a term an issue we'll discuss in more detail in a future lecture because it's so common
to use rectified linear units in literature we're often when we're building our networks going to default
to a rectified linear unit as our activation function due to its overall good performance now for a
full list of possible activation functions.
Highly encourage you to check out the wikipedia page on activation functions.
In fact let's go ahead and take a quick tour of it now.
All right.
Here I am on the wikipedia page for activation functions and we can see here that it actually shows
you the logistic activation function has kind of its main image.
But if you scroll down it talks about functions talks up biologically inspired neural networks.
So here's the image we were showing you earlier.
You can keep going down here some alternative structures.
If you don't want to use an activation function but eventually we scroll down here.
It's so do some things to compare activation functions against such as being long linear the range the
upper bound the lower bounds if they're continuously differential.
But here we can see this little table that displays a lot of commonly used activation functions as well
as their derivative which is going to be important we're talking about things like back propagation.
But the main thing keep mine is really just the name the plot and the equation which should give you
kind of an overview of what the activation functions actually doing.
There is a simple identity which is just whatever then you're on outputs.
That's gonna be what it outputs with the activation function attached to it.
There's the binary step essentially zero if you're less than zero one if you're greater than or equal
to zero.
The logistic otherwise known as a sigmoid or soft.
That also very very common activation function to use especially for binary classification have things
like the hyperbolic tangent which you just mentioned looks a lot like sigmoid except you can see here
at the upper and lower bound specifically lower bound goes to negative one.
There's arc tangent arcs hyperbolic sine lots of there are things here.
Then if you keep scrolling down you see the rectified linear unit that has a whole Wikipedia page and
sit in it.
As I mentioned before it's it's a really common activation function to use so common has its own Wikipedia
article on it.
Then there's kind of more advanced rectified linear unit.
So recently a lot people have been experimenting with different variations of the rectified linear unit
specifically a really common one.
Is this leaky rectified linear unit which instead of kind of flatlining at 0 4 values along the x axis
that are less than zero.
It kind of leaks a little bit and has this really small gradient.
This is actually a little exaggerated here.
You can see it's going to be zero point zero one x 4 x that is less than zero.
So this is known as a leaky rectified linear unit and there's a bunch of other linear units they can
check out here.
So as you can see we have lots of different options here but typically what we're going to be doing
is we'll be using things like sigmoid function the soft max function for multi class classification
which we'll talk about in just a second and then rectified later units because overall they have pretty
good performance.
So keep in mind they encourage you to check out the activation function page here.
This article's really interesting but the other thing I want you to keep in mind is right now we've
only discussed things like binary classification keeping things between 0 and 1 and then maybe we have
some sort of fixed probability there.
But there's another set of issues that we have to kind of think about.
If we're dealing with multi class classification so let's go ahead and discuss multi class classification
activation functions and networks in the next lecture.
I'll see you there.